Chapter One: Introduction.
Sub-Saharan Africa has the highest rates of fertility and the highest potential for population increase of any area in the world. This raises serious worldwide concerns about the region's ability to meet its health as well as other development objectives in the face of such rapid population expansion. Family planning (FP) strives to enable people and families to anticipate and achieve their desired childbearing capacity while spacing and scheduling births properly. While FP has the potential to save between 20percent in terms and 35% of maternal fatalities, societal norms and insufficient FP supplies preclude proper and consistent FP usage in the majority of low- and middle-income nations. 

Chapter Two: Data Description.
Managers of family planning programs may benefit from knowing where to get current contraceptive techniques. Data from prior demographic surveys conducted in Ghana over the past decade may be utilized to analyze current fertility patterns. A population's undesired or mistimed births may be estimated using data on fertility preferences. To gain a sense of how many people might benefit from family planning, it's helpful to combine these data with information on contraception use. The TFR is a fictitious measure of female fertility. It can be thought of as the number of children a woman would have if she went through her childbearing years and didn't die. If she did this, she would have a lot of children, but they wouldn't be affected by death. 
Chapter Three: Results
3.1 Characteristics of the Population
The research participants had an average age of 26.2 yrs, having a standard deviation of 6.7 years. Over three-quarters of the ladies were between the ages of 20 and 24 years old. Table 1 shows that 166 (26.2 percent) of the women had Arabic education, but just 25 (3.9 percent) had a postsecondary degree. The bulk of the women were solely housewives and the largest prevalent ethnic group was Mandinka. The majority of those who took part were Muslim (620, or 97.8%), and 564 of them were married (89.0%). Over half of the participants had monthly earnings with less than or equal to D2000.
3.2 Family Planning Methods Knowledge

The majority of individuals (89.4%) were familiar with pills, whereas 84.2 percent were familiar with injectable and 36.4% were familiar with implants. Table 2 shows that 15.6% of women were aware of the female condom and 4.4% were aware of the IUD when it came to barrier measures. In terms of natural techniques, 72 percent (15 percent) used extended nursing, and 6 percent (6.9 percent) used the rhythm method. The overwhelming majority of participants (369 (82.6%)) are familiar with pill use (progesterone and combined). 
Chapter Four: Discussion

The mean age of participants was comparable to that of women of reproductive age in 2017 research done in a rural community in Southern Nigeria and Oyo State, Nigeria. Women were discovered to be more numerous throughout their reproductive prime. Just like a research in Osun State, two-thirds of the women are educated up to secondary level. Women with little formal education were found to be major non-FP users, which might have explained for the parity reported among women. It has also been established that the greater the educational level, the less probable the women’s parity. Another major element in the high rate of pregnancy in couples is the choice of the male partner, although it is beyond the focus of this research. 
Chapter Five: Conclusion

In order to lower rural Gambia's fertility rate, we might close the gap between the existing use of FP services and the availability and acceptance of FP goods. Since both nonusers and "dropouts" will be encouraged to restart contraceptive use by the population-based approach, it's important to focus on delivering accurate and up-to-date information together with better community oversight. Acceptors of the program deserve better treatment, and the program's administrators must do all in their power to make that happen. As a result of the present RCH service delivery approach, which includes village health workers, community health workers, and healthcare facilities, this problem may be handled more effectively. 
